Hello. Good morning, sir.
Yeah, good morning. Happy
sir. Happy year sir.
Yeah, happy everyone.
So
23 participant has joined now.
So then the year ending, all of you have taken vacation?
Yes sir. Yeah. Yes sir.
Normally for, uh, for me at least, uh, the complete half
of December is completely shut down,
so you are just taken off.
Okay. So
Did you guys go out anywhere or even in the same place?
Yeah, I went out, I also went to the,
after our ING campus in my mission, I went out with kids,
uh, uh, to Humpy, AMI and all those places and came back.
Okay. Humpy AMI is just three hours from,
Uh, Or
Correct, correct, Correct.
Okay.
Someone went to Rames Rome.
I went to Rames Rome. Yeah,
So that train is going to that uh, p**n bridge.
I went by a car, like it was very hectic.
Oh, so you didn't go by train
Over to see?
No, I went by car, I went by the bridge,
but the traffic was there.
It's except one hour on the bridge.
Oh, okay. So you did not get time
to book that train ticket, I think,
Yeah, Yeah, correct.
Any, Every place is crowded. Sir. This holiday was
Too Much. Every
place, every place the church
to this place you take it was really crowded.
Oh. So basically most of the
CED work cultures like that year ending, they get only time.
I think apart from that, you don't get any more time.
For me, it was a full hectic, sir Jan
to December calendar year.
It was hectic work. Yesterday I got leave.
Oh, that means you don't get any, uh, scope
of in December. No,
Sir. Because
all we need to ca calculate area January
to December number, send them appraisal for in.
Okay, So I think I have not met you in this,
uh, campus.
No sir. I didn't came sir because I went to
During that period. Okay.
Okay. Okay. Uh, next emotion. I'll be there, sir.
Sir. Hardly, hardly, uh, 40% of us only came there, sir.
60% were didn't ta Yeah, that is expected.
40% coming is also a bigger number.
So that is why I'm not putting too much
load on the teaching side.
Um, so today my aim is
to show you something on q learning another example.
Till now, whatever we are doing is only with frozen lake.
Okay. So the today's problem is there not,
uh, quick question theory.
Hmm. Uh, sir, the frozen lake TD learning, uh,
notebook, uh, is not shared with us
TD learning. Uh,
Okay. Will
tell them. Okay sir,
I have mailed it to a two times.
It's not uploaded in sir. Okay.
Okay. Sir, you are able to see my screen?
Yes Sir. One experiment for another environment.
So let me see if the run has completed or not.
It is not yet completed.
Okay, so Let me go to
Your,
So today's exercise is basically it is called, uh,
So All of you, these are already simple,
simple example gym naia.
So it is gym now
Zoom Package, open AI
gym NAIA documentation.
So you, you are able to see my screen, right?
Yes sir. Yes sir.
So here we have, uh, Jim NAIA is a package from OpenAI.
You can, uh, use this import,
this gymnasium package
and it has many examples of environment
right now, whatever they're showing is
for this is the environment for,
uh, landing into moon or that they have environment.
This environment is named as lunar landing. Okay?
However, today I'm not going to do this.
I have a simple more example this, I'll do it after three
or four lectures for deep deep Q learning part.
Okay? So you go to this, uh, homepage
and look at, there are
environment like this.
So you can search, let's say we are going to,
today's task is basically taxi, the taxi pickup.
So the taxi environment will be here, I think to taxi.
Yeah. So this is the taxi environment
that will show you some graph for this environment.
After that, the graph is not shown here. Okay?
So the taxi environment is, I have a, uh,
here,
okay, so this is the Q learning for taxi environment.
What is that environment? Let me draw it to you.
And what is that? Microsoft White Book? Hmm?
Whiteboard
starting blank.
Okay, so today's is basically Q
learning or
Taxi environment.
The environment is like this.
There is a taxi five
cross, 5G grid.
So it is uh, five row, five column, five cross, 5G grid.
And for every, like if you can split it up like this,
there are location of, hmm,
customer to be picked up.
So the location of customer and dropping off.
So there's a taxi here.
So the environment is like this that you have
position of taxi, x, x coordinate.
Okay? X coordinate for taxi,
you have Y coordinate for taxi.
Okay? That means, hmm,
X coordinate is like this in the horizontal
and vertical is a white taxi.
So these are the two coordinate for your taxi location
and there is a position of
customer C, okay?
And there is a position of dropping
pc, pd, okay?
So
X taxi can be taking any value
from 0 1 2 up to all the way five, right?
So it is four because we have five positions in the X.
So similarly for Y also it has
zero one up to four
for customer location, customer can be
zero one.
So there are four places where customer can be living.
These are the four places of house.
In addition, if the customer is in the car,
so there are four positions, so let me light there.
0, 1, 2, 3.
And the fourth position it is in inside the car.
So customer can be located anywhere out of these four,
so it can be 0, 1, 2, 3, 4.
Okay? The customer location. Then dropping location.
What happened,
the dropping color.
So for dropping location, it is,
uh, so customer will be getting dropped at any one
of these four houses.
So it is 0, 1, 2, 3.
Okay? Now,
in your state, your basically, uh, we
all the time we are doing this q learning, we are going
to do Q function four A and a.
Okay? State here, your state is basically, this is
what is your state definition?
It is, it is
basically topple.
So the total dimension of your state is going to be, so
this is five here.
Five here under 3, 4, 5 here. Four here. Okay.
So it is basically this ace is
basically five cross.
Five cross.
So total volume is going to be 500 number of states.
So ACE is going to be taking
500 different possible value, okay?
And your queue function, whenever we are going to update it,
so we are going to update in the Q table.
The q table is
basically state and action.
So Q table means basically in this side it is state,
in this side it is action.
What are the action possible for a taxi to move left,
right, up, down.
And then another action,
another action is customer picking up.
Customer dropping. So there are
six possible action possible here.
Okay? So your action is basically
0, 1, 2, 3, no, zero stands
for left side movement.
One stands for, right? This is for down, this is for up.
After that customer pickup, customer dropped.
So here you can have pu that is pickup,
and then you have customer dropping.
So you have cd, you can have it
0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
Okay? So you have six possible action here.
So here it is,
0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
Okay, six possible action need in the state
what total possibilities, 500 defined possibility, okay?
Now the important thing here is that is why I would like
to focus here.
Look at here, the state, the state,
if we flatten them out, like, uh, x, x taxi,
it is taking five different values here
and y coordinate, it can take five different value.
So for each and every row, you can have like for a,
if you keep this constant row, okay, for this constant row,
you can have, uh, let's say it is like this,
it is basically Cartesian product.
Cartesian product. You all know, right?
For a particular X value, okay?
You can have five y values,
Y can have five values for each one of the y five value.
You can have four different values for cus
four different values for your dropping location
and five different values for your customer location.
It is basically a cart and product.
However, if I tell you that,
uh, most of the cases of your deep learning exercise,
if you want to fit any image to your neural network,
what you do to make it as a flat end,
let's say your image size is 64 plus 64,
it is a squared image.
If you wanna fit the image into your deep learning
framework, we'll make this a flat end
and then we fit it to some neurons of all of this, uh,
neural network, okay?
However, in this flattened concept, I have this Ian product.
If I do this flattening out, it is very difficult to say.
Let's say I, I, I have a state number called 380.
So it is very difficult to say what is the position of X
and Y from this three 80?
What is the particular hello of X and Y
and what is the particular hello for the customer location
and dropping location?
Okay? It's very difficult to say.
That doesn't mean it is not possible to say.
So as of now, in this queue table, we'll go ahead
with flattening operation, we'll make them flat.
So we have only 500 D of defined value, zero one up
to all the way up to 4 99
defined values in their state.
Uh, starting from zero all the way to here
and action will be six defined possible values of action.
Okay? However,
next lecture when we get into deep Q learning
by using the neural network.
In that case, we'll go ahead with this definition,
this many possibility.
Okay, So what is our Q learning rule?
Q learning rule is very simple.
It'll go down.
We sum all the action. What is three at the last?
So Q learning, so
for Q is comma A, this is the updated value.
So the new hello of Q learning, uh, Q function
for a particular state is a is going to be
assigned from the old value of
new function for the particulars,
let's say I'm going to compute it for SK state,
Okay?
K state. So this will remain this
for the K state old estimate is plus
learning rate multiplied by,
Yeah, reward, total reward.
Mm-hmm. Total reward, sir.
Hmm? So you are going to take
a, uh, one action under the state of sk.
So you are going to get into new state
where you are expecting a reward of RK plus
maximization over all the action
for the old estimate,
you are now getting into a new state is k plus one,
Okay?
You're getting a new state.
At the new state, you can execute any action,
find out whichever action is giving with the maximum reward.
Take that this one minus
of Q, old of your
SK and three.
This is what we have like,
Okay, Here is the Q learning rule.
We are going to implement, we have already implemented this
for our frozen Q lake, frozen lake Q learning.
We'll rerun, rerun the same function.
We don't have any more changes.
So now I show can you,
can you explain the function once again if
possible, this function?
Yes sir. Okay, so it is like this basically,
let's say this is a very simple case of your G grid.
This is a G grid world.
Your final destination is here, okay?
You are starting a game from here for any state.
This is your starting position, okay?
For any state of all of these positions, you want
to find out the Q value for a state, given
that you have committed a action.
So every state you are having so many possibility left,
right, up and down for every state,
Okay? You
are going to find out the uh, value
for a particular sale that is S state is
for a particular state, you want to compute the
value for taking any action in any direction like this.
Okay? So let's say if I want to find out Q hello
for a state called sk.
Given that I have taken an action called a,
let's say A is your right direction from this cell,
you are taking a right direction, okay?
Under slipper environment, you may be falling into this cell
or you may be falling into this cell,
or you may be falling into this cell, okay?
For every cell, for every next sale,
you already have a old value of Q that is made available
to you from here, okay?
So for every sale, you are already having a old estimate
of your Q value, right?
This old estimate is going to be helping you
to update your new estimate
for this particular sale or this particular state.
That is what is our objective here for doing that,
I have this equation to be performed, okay?
This equation means that you don't have,
uh, access to every, uh,
every like, um, until you complete your game,
you are not receiving the final reward, okay?
There is no reward coming at every indi uh,
intermediate state.
So how you want to compute the updated value 40,
this estimate of the Q health.
So you take a, either you do it q uh,
either do it TD learning
or you do a multi destination, okay?
TD learning means you are assuming that the next state
that you are transitioning into
that state might be having a better view
of the final destination than this current
state, uh, current state.
That is the meaning of Q learning.
And for Monte law it says that
you do all the experiment until you reach the final goal,
you manage the final goal
or you may not reach your total amount of trial is over.
So you have to, your game is over, you are going
to get a zero reward.
If you are getting, uh, to the final state at the end
of game, you're going to get a reward.
Now use that reward
to get it divided equally for every state.
That is the meaning of Montecarlo.
TTT learning do not use that.
And Q learning is basically called
TD learning applied on Q function.
So TD learning, if you apply on Q function,
it is called if you apply it on Q function,
it is called Q learning.
If you apply it on V function, it is called TD learning.
Normal TD learning, okay? And the update rule is this.
The meaning is I want to update my estimate
for this particular state and action.
SK A, this is a pair, SK a,
this is a pair, okay?
For this pair, I want to keep on updating
my estimate of Q function.
Estimate of Q function will be in two phases.
One is a old estimate, other one is a new estimate.
So this old estimate is going to be initialized to zero
for every state and action.
Okay? Then at the first execution of this, what you're going
to get ion is the new estimate is going to
be assigned with the old estimate value plus a learning rate
multiplied by what you do is you take only one action.
If you take only one action, you are going to be uh,
going to some neighboring state.
Under T learning, you assume
that your neighboring state might have a better
knowledge about the environment.
So the neighboring state is SK plus
one, SK plus one.
You have to use the old estimate of that
and find out all possible action for the new state
of SK plus one take out only
that particular action which is produced in the maximum
among all of the, so you,
let's say you are at this state now you take a,
you are considering SK comma, right?
Okay, let's say you are going to compute this Q function
for sk, right?
Right is your action.
So you are going to be updating this Q new.
You have to use the old value plus this alpha multiplied by,
so this one will remain as it is plus
alpha multiplied by rk, her intermediate step,
we don't receive any reward.
It'll be zero plus the maximization over
all possible action under the next date.
So maximization for all possible action under the
old estimate of next date.
Your next date is this particular cell.
So the cell number of this,
let's say it is 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
So at this consider
all possible action here.
So here you are having lay up, right, left all this
among this, whichever is producing the highest.
You take up that value, okay?
You take up that value subtract with the old estimate
of the same.
That is right.
This is called TD error.
TDR means this is what you are expecting.
This is your target. This part is called target
and the subtraction part is called error
target means you want, suppose your estimation is correct.
If your estimation is correct, then
this is your current estimation that is key old
and this is your target estimation.
If they are equal, then the error will be zero. Okay?
So we want to reach to this target.
So we are taking the difference from a target
to your current position.
That difference is your error by which you are updating your
current testament.
This is just like your gradient descent algorithm in your
machine learning cases, right?
Actually TD learning, they have been
this thing have been in hundred much earlier than this
machine learning usage of in case
of machine learning, what do you do?
You are going to update your W parameter is a
weight of your neural network.
Okay? So W at the iation I plus one
W is a vector vector of your neural network weights
at the iation of I plus one.
If you want to update, you have to use the weight of the
IH iation, okay?
Minus alpha is a learning rate alpha.
Then you have a gradient on your loss function.
Delta J, delta W, you write it like this.
J is a loss function.
Normally it is expressed in the term of
JI write it J here.
J is the number of sample one, two,
let's see you have capital in in number of sample
and you have a
target target value of your sample, right?
So it is like
your XJJ sample
X minus your X hat.
X hat is your
hypothesis or your estimation.
This is the real value that is given
to you from your dataset xj minus of XJ minus
of X hat J for all the sample this divided
by in this is your loss function whole squad.
This is your loss function.
Take gradient of this with respect to W.
So this gradient means your adjustment rate of adjustment
that you are doing your rate
of adjustment in most other cases.
What we get this, this one,
if J is that submission I is equal
to one two N.
What is it? Xj? XJ is basically
tell me something about xj for neural network.
Yes, no
inputs, inputs,
Input, input values.
We are updating this with respect to the weight
of your neural network.
Okay? Then it'll be weight, sir.
It'll be predicted value. Yeah, predicted value, right?
So predicted value is basically w transpose X
five means your activation.
Activation applied on W transpose.
J is the J sample, okay?
W transpose xj fine here J please.
You are doing submission for all the sample J is equal
to one two N, this minus of your
this W transpose.
XJ is your prediction
and your real value is given to you from your data set.
If is xj, so I'm just writing this X hat is this one, okay?
This whole square, this, if this is your
J, then what is your,
what is the faster delivery
of this thing that we want to use?
This, right? What is that?
This divided by capital N,
but this will be one by N will remain as it is.
Then you do this five means you have five dash
to be applied on w transpose X,
JJ, Pfizer active
and is sigmoid.
It may be like that in some cases
five may not be applied on the output layer.
If it is a normal prediction, five may not be.
If it is a um, if it is a binary
or multi-class classification case, in
that case five will be applied.
Normal example of um, common example of five is basically
there is a class, one is called sigmoid activation,
another one is called activation.
Another one is called soft max.
All these are example of five. Okay?
So five dash of this multiplied
by derivative of this quantity.
What is the ative of this quantity?
S is just x, x, x constant.
So this uh, derivative is going to be
w transpose X derivative with respect to this,
okay?
This will turn out to only XJ minus
of XJ.
So this derivative of this, this is going
to be zero, set out to be zero.
This part, this part derivative
is going to set out to be zero.
So what we are remaining here is, this is again,
sum, sum is remaining, okay?
This sum one by N, this sum will be there
and here inside it'll be five dash
w transpose XJ multiplied by
XXJ.
Okay, so this is
what is basically your derivative turning out to be Yes.
In another way, if you look at if,
if you look at this updated question
and this updated question,
there's a lot of similarity.
The similarity is basically
look at here.
This is what, this is your,
this is your prediction
and this is your actual that you have been
provided from the data set itself.
So this is your error.
Basically you are trying to minimize your error,
okay?
One thing is since this is a squared form, okay,
so this will be remaining
and this uh,
so this term is the DER of this alone.
So this will be multiplied
with this remaining part will remain as it is.
So this will, because this is square term, okay?
So you have to take derivative with respect to this one time
and then this derivative with respect to, with respect
to W this one.
So this part is that part and this will remain as it is.
So here it is five of your W transpose,
XJ minus of xj.
This will remain as it is, okay?
So this is the derivative part and this is the error term.
So here in our case
of Q learning there is a lot of similarity.
That is you are trying to adjust your,
you are trying to adjust your estimate of your
queue function by the help of old estimate plus a error term
and this error will be finishing if your old estimate
is exactly equal to the target value.
If these are equal, you are not going to have any error,
so you're not going to have any new value coming up.
So old estimate is going to be final value.
However, if there is any error, error means then target
is somewhat far away from your current estimate.
So whatever is your distance between your target
and your current estimate, you take that distance
and you update your current estimate.
That is the main meaning of Q learning
and gradient decent based learning algorithm
everywhere it is the same.
Okay?
Okay, so this is our example of your
car taxi and here I have that taxi,
uh, the same thing.
I have shared it to you
for frozen q learning
This is for another example of
whether it is completed or not.
It's still going on 50 minutes, it is still going on.
This is for another environment, okay? So don't worry.
So last plus I have shown you for
q learning in the environment of frozen lake.
This class I have shown you only the environment
of taxi, okay?
In the frozen lake
and taxi, we don't have any difference in the programming.
This is a Q function update that remains the same
for all the environment.
This q function update does not make any changes whether you
change to a new environment or not.
Only thing is the state definition will be changing.
So accordingly you have to design your
uh, state variable.
That's it, okay? In case of frozen lake, we have agreed
of eight across eight
and in case of taxi we have a G grid
of 50 here.
Is that right? Our G grid size is going to be
basically 50.
This is uh, not 5,500. This, this is the value 500, okay?
So your state is going to be 500 here in case of greed.
Uh, in case of frozen leg it is eight across eight means
64 number of states.
Here. Here it is going to be 500 number of states, okay?
And uh, the main brain
behind the Q learning is writing that Q function,
which is basically, this is a new estimate q, state action.
We don't have to write q and then new variable, okay?
It is the same metrics Q metrics.
We are updating from the old value of this thing
for a particular state and action.
This plus of learning rate multiplied by reward
plus discount factor multiplied
by maximizing overall possible action for the new state.
Okay? This part is over here. That is your error part.
From here to here, this packet is ending here. Here, okay?
Then you are having
this old estimate.
After you do this ion, you set your state to win new state.
Okay? That's it.
So this is our queue function updates
and for poison
lake, same thing.
I'm having it for taxi.
Look at in taxi all the program,
I'm only getting here taxi environment,
I'm down using this
and here I don't have written, uh, I think, uh,
rendering under this argument map name eight, cross eight,
this thing, uh, slippery two.
These two argument are not required here,
Okay? Rendering
is said to be false.
Rendering means you can see the visualization.
Lemme see. Running is
okay after it has run for 15,000 report,
I am running it for 10 times
and uh, training is said to be false.
That means I am using the old, uh, values
that I have already stored it here, okay?
The values are stored into which PL file, uh,
the PL file, okay?
This is a PNG, this is the pickle file, okay?
Inside this P file, it is stored.
If the training is true, then I'm going
to store it into the P file.
If the training is not true, I'm going to load the queue,
queue from the this queue table, this queue table.
If I'm not doing training, I'll be reusing the old, uh,
values of Q from the PL file.
So I will be using this P file to load my Q table.
Okay? So now look at this program that is taxi
and frozen lake.
There is no difference at all.
You can see all of the things I'm remaining this way,
this termination condition here,
termination condition here I'm
doing a sampling of action by the help of
difficult exploration and exportation strategy.
If the random number of value is less than,
then I'm taking it from the
action space arbitrarily.
If it is this value is bigger than the,
then I'll be using the queue hall.
Okay, look at this
and frozen leg Having the same thing, no change.
Then we can set the value for epsilon.
Sir, that threshold we can, yeah, you can change.
For epsilon, we are having a schedule to be followed.
That is a epsilon is set to be one in the initially,
then it is decaying down
after 10,000 1, 2, 10 per minus four.
So 10 per minus four minus 10,000.
After 10,000 deep work this way, Sal will become zero. Okay?
Yeah. So as Sal is falling down here,
this condition will start failing, but it'll be failing
after around 5,000 Oke, I mean
after 5,000 schedule is over, okay?
So the program remains the same, do not require any change,
this and that, and that's
what I'm trying to emphasize in you.
After that you get these values.
So I have run this program for 15,000 Deepak
and I'm plotting what I'm plotting how the reward is growing
or how the reward is falling down.
Reward initially it may fall down in case of taxi,
I have forgotten to tell you, go to taxi environment.
Here are the taxi environment, okay?
So look at what are the action possible here.
Down, up left, right?
This action is for the taxi
because taxi is the subject which is moving
around the environment.
It can pick up a passenger, it can drop off a passenger.
So there are six possible action
and how many states are there?
500 states are there. Okay?
What is the reward? That's what I wanted to tell you here.
The reward will be since you are using petrol
to run your track C
or every time, go back to this diagram.
Every time you make a movement by one step,
your reward is falling by minus one, okay?
Because you're using petrol, so your energy is falling down
and if you reach to your particular destination of
where the customer wants to get dropped, you are going
to get a positive reward of 20.
If you have dropped the customer
apart from the desired location, you are going
to get a negative of minus 10 reward.
Okay? That is the reward system here under that situation,
this uh, thing
after running for 15,000 OC
was this is 15,000 oc.
Now I'm running from 10 epoc when I, my training is false
and my rendering is true.
When rendering is true, it'll show you this
image of plotting.
So look at the reward has fallen down
as the epoch card improving slowly, it is
at the initial, it is falling down to minus very big number
and then it'll start rising as the epoch goes on.
As the epoch goes on, it'll start rising almost.
It is becoming very less positive value
After 15,000 book
and for the frozen lake.
Have you guys run this uh,
frozen lake I have sent you right?
Frozen lake for the Q learning.
Did I send you by email? Uh,
Yeah, yeah, it was there, but uh, today I will do sir.
It's taking more time sir. It'll take time for me.
Also, it, I have interrupted.
After 15 minutes of running, it'll take time
like I am running for another thing called cardpool.
It is almost 59 minutes. Still going on.
It's still going on,
Sir. Uh, I
have uh, one question, sir.
Sir, uh, for uh, grid, uh, frozen lake, 18
to eight, we are taking, then we have 64 states, right?
So in taxi environment, how we are getting up to 500,
although I'm seeing the calculation five into five into four
into five, but I'm not much clear on that,
Okay?
So as I told you, it is basically Cartesian product for uh,
x location, y location of the taxi, then the location
of your uh, customer, the pickup location
and then dropping location, okay?
And these values will be flowing for five.
This will for five pickup location,
I mean customer location, basically not pickup
customer can be any one of the four houses
or it can be inside taxi also
and dropping location is any one of the four.
So if you multiply all of them, you get 500.
Now how we are going to encode this
value, that is very important.
Yes, encoding means basically it is like this.
Let's say
for the frozen lake you can reduce a dimension
to four plus four
and run it again so
that your running time will not be that much high open.
So you have, it's a
5, 1, 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 1.
Let's say we are at the look, this is
0, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4.
Let's say we are here. This, our taxi is here, okay?
And Encode this state.
So this state is going to be your x value is one
y access, value is one.
Let's see, your customer is at here,
Okay? So
customer value is Zero
And your final destination is here.
Okay?
So the Dropping location is
basically, this is a state,
Okay?
This is one state. The next state, when the customer, uh,
taxi is going to pick up the customer first
and then it is going to drop it in this location.
So taxi like this, this, this or this.
So let's say this action,
it has taken left action under left action.
So this was his state,
So, So this state number
we need to ate, right?
That number is what is basically flowing from.
So this is your configuration.
Let's say for this state, this is the new state.
What will be its values, your X value is zero,
your Y value is one.
Your custom is located at zero,
your drop location is four.
Fine.
Yes Sir. Now these two will remain same
for all the cases, right?
Only X and Y coordinate of your taxi location
because the taxi randomly moving.
So taxi has to pick up if he is picking up from him from
this particular location, he's getting rewarded.
If not, if the taxi is moving down here
after it goes here, it may go further down,
it may further go away for everything it is going
to get a negative reward.
So for picking up from its own proper location, he's going
to get a positive reward.
Okay? For that to happen, you need
to, first of all, this is your configuration of one state.
This is confi, another state.
Having said that, there is no change in the last
two dimension.
So here how many possibility can happen?
Your text may be here, it may be here,
it may be here anywhere, right?
So you have here itself,
we have 25 different combination right here itself.
Yes sir. If you just keep this three fixed, let's say
from here I'm putting a desk line.
Let's say this is
my Y coordinate.
So let's me fix the Y coordinate
and my only X values are changing.
So this is my Y coordinate remaining the same
taxi might be here, it might be here.
So let's say this, these, these are fixed.
So here your hello can be one, one is already taken up
between be two, it can be 3, 4, 5.
Okay? Just gimme a second one important call is coming.
So like that your values will be keep on changing
for one coordinate.
You get five different values here,
all these five different values you can enum
to state number.
This is one, I mean this is zero.
This is state number one, state number two,
state number three like that, it'll go on.
Now you keep this fixed
to be some particular oop change only this you can enate
to some other state number
and that is how actually they have done it.
Just give me a second. I have a call
to pick up just one minute.
Yes, sure.
Hello.
Eight 60 plus for uh, 13 level. Eight 90.
Hello. So, uh, that is why
this way of writing configuration is a
human understandable way.
I mean if you make it a affordable foldable,
it is human understandable.
However, this will be converted
to some NU medical fellow 1, 2, 3 for all
of them will be converted.
This is done by their mechanism,
this environment, this,
that's why I'm using this environment.
I am not handwriting like I have done it before.
So whenever you get it from their observation space, right,
so they will encode it to this 500 cross six array
that we are not doing.
They are doing it, okay?
However, as I told you, when I get into deep Q learning,
we will require this thing we'll be using them.
Yeah. Hmm.
So any other question
for next class I'll be teaching, uh, one more example that's
for cardpool is going on this training.
One hour, eight minute, whatever happens, I will,
um, let me,
this card pole is also one interesting game.
If it runs, then I can show it to, okay?
So all of the environments are available here.
You can search it here, card poll,
this all we are using, uh, your uh, normal Q learning
by the QT update.
The same problem. We can solve it using deep Q learning.
This is the card poll, okay?
The card four is basically an example like
you have gone to Sarcas.
Has any one of you gone to Sarcas? Yes sir.
Yes sir, yes sir. All of you I think which I, mm-hmm
So in the sarcas you would be seeing one interesting game
that uh, if uh, uh,
baldheaded person having a pole on his head
and he's trying to walk.
He's trying to walk by maintaining the pole on his head
in such a manner that the pole should not be
beyond 30 degree angle from his vertical position like this.
If you draw a perpendicular here
and then from this perpendicular position,
it should not be falling by 30 degree.
This side, 30 degree backside
and the person has to walk in the ground.
If he is able to maintain that angle degree, he is success.
If the pole is going beyond 30 degree angle,
then his game is over.
He has failed. Okay?
This is what is the called carpool environment.
So the environment has action, it has space.
Space means your state space, okay?
So what are the state space?
It has been people state space action.
Space action is either moving the
right side or left side.
It is a one dimensional movement.
It is not like up right you up down, left, right?
We have four actions. It is not the case in case of
it has only two action.
Either you move forward or move backward, okay?
And you keep your pole on your head
and you have to walk, okay?
You may ask a question, why should if I move,
if I can successfully move one step forward,
why should I require a step back?
So step back is suppose your pole has gone
beyond the strategic angle when you are trying
to move in the forward side.
If you make one more step in the forward side,
it is definitely that your pole is going to be falling apart
of 30 degree angle.
So to balance it, if you make a back step
immediately the pole will get a thrust on the backside the
pole will come back, okay?
That is why we need to have only one direction,
movement rather move forward or move backward.
That is the action space. What is the state space?
State space is basically we have four type
of possibility.
One is your
uh, look at here.
1, 2, 3, 4.
You can see this three, four, okay?
This is basically giving you upper limit
and lower limit of your total length of your position.
So it'll be somewhere plus four, minus four.
Here it is the center position.
If you go backside, it is minus four.
If you go upside, if you go forward side, it is plus four.
So this is the total limit of your movement in the forward
or in the backward direction that is standing
for this particular position.
Second one is this one.
This is basically your angle
from this right angle.
Okay? So it is like this, your cart pole is basically it has
4, 3, 1 is
your location.
Location can be
4, 3, 2, all the way up to minus four.
Okay? Then you have a angle.
Angle is basically any value between 0 2, 30 degree.
Then you have a velocity.
Velocity is when you are moving onto this straight line.
This is the center, this is the positive four.
This is the negative four. Okay?
Among this, you are allowed to move.
If you gone beyond them,
you have game is over for you, okay?
Angle means this is the right angle, vertical,
your pole can be, this is theater,
This is Minus, right?
So your theater can be between zero to 30 degree.
What is a velocity? When you are moving,
you will be having a velocity.
Okay? So your velocity is
provided between some value, permissible value between zero
to something like one kilometer,
two kilometer power, whatever it is.
The values are according to the unit
provided by the environment.
What is uh, for your pole,
pole is basically oscillating like this.
So pole also has a angular velocity, angular velocity.
Angular velocity basically means
rotation and P and all those.
There's a unit. So angular ity has a unit
and where the permission will lead
between zero two something, four, five, whatever it is.
Okay? So these are the four possible state.
That means at a part, let's say you are here right now.
This is a value of two your location, this is uh,
so your state is basically de denoted as
1, 2, 3, 4 dimension.
Your state is basically having four dimension.
First one is a location, location is two.
At this position, what is your angle When you are here,
your angle, let's say somewhere between let's say 20 dingle,
your pole angle, 20 ding, what is it?
It's velocity. Let's say it is two kilometer power.
What is this? Angular velocity. Let's say it is one.
Okay? So that is how your state is defined
and again, I'm using gym package.
So we are going to making it as a flat ending out.
However, when we get into deep Q learning,
we will require this separately
because we'll be fitting this into a neural
network, a neural network.
We can have this many neurons to store all of these values.
So that is a cardpool environment
Still going on.
Episode number
300 episode I think how many episode I'm reading.
Okay, let us see whether ites up or not.
So this is what is the environment specified here? Okay?
This is the description of your action space.
Left or right, your action space,
your observation space is here.
That is a cart position maximum
and minimum value minus 4.8 maximum is 4.8
card ion means it is here, okay?
Card ion is here or here.
That is a upper limit and lower limit.
What is a card velocity?
Card velocity between minus in 22 positive infinity
and pole angle is minus 24 degree to positive 24 degree.
That is the upper limit and lower limit.
Your angular loc is between minus infinity
to positive infinity.
However, we cannot allow minus infinity positive we can
to have some positive color associated with that.
Okay? Reward now.
So reward is basically
if you have reached to the destination,
like if you have reached to this position, okay?
In that case your game is over
with a positive reward
or if you can maintain I think uh, total
how many steps you can go
by maintaining the angle that is given here.
It is given here a reward positive one is given
for every step taken, including the termination step.
Default reward threshold is 500
for V one version one, 200.
For version P zero due the time limit,
the goal is to keep the pole upright for
as long as possible.
Okay? So if you are able to keep the
angle between 20 degree, 24 degree positive
and minus, you are going to get positive reward
for every step that you are taking up.
So basically how many maximum step you can take
by that, the game will get to her
by the maximum number of steps.
If any one time you, your pole angle has crossed 24 degree,
you are, you are going to get a zero reward.
Otherwise you are going to get plus one reward every time.
That is what is a reward scheme.
If your reward is exceeding the value of 500
for the fortune one, your game is over with a success.
For fortune zero it is 200.
This is how it'll be used.
Uh, tax.
This is the card hole.
Look at I'm getting the gym environment. After that.
This position, I'm making it
from minus 2.4 to 2.4 with a gap of 10
NP link space means it is going
to create a basically arithmetic progression series
starting from minus 2.4.
Upper limit is 2.4
and the distance
between consecutive two point is 10 values like that
velocity is also given.
This is the space for minus four to four angular
space angle is also given from this radian to this radian
between two sample.
The value is the defenses, 10
angular velocity also given from minus four to four.
Then after you create your queue metrics,
your Q metrics is going
to have position space.
Second city is basically a couple of
four entries.
Each entry is basically,
this is first one is position space,
second one is velocity space,
whatever you are using it here, okay?
This position, velocity angle
and angular velocity, all of them, you just specify it here.
Okay? So from here
to here it is basically your look at from here,
from here to here it is basically your state
1, 2, 3, 4, 4 dimension required to define a state.
Okay? And from here it is basically action space,
which is action space.
Okay? So your initial sign of Q table is done.
The Q table is basically this much added
11 cross 11 cross 11, cross 11.
Why it is 11? Because all of these are using
NP link space here, okay?
In NP link space here, you are going
to pick up only 10 elements.
So you get 10 element over there
and one element we are keeping it from here.
Link space plus one link space plus one, okay?
That is how we are getting 11 plus 11 plus 11.
This is if you are using training.
If you are going to train, then you have
to create a new Q table.
Otherwise, if you're not doing training,
you have already made the training, you're going
to reuse the Q table of the previous computation.
So you are going to load the cart, pull pickle file,
load it into qw and start here.
Okay? And here under,
so here you look at the state definition
as I told you here, your state is basically
four double here.
This is your four double. Okay?
So you are reusing the state definition from the environment
file given to you wherein the state zero is basically
your position space.
Your state one is a velocity space.
This one, yes, like that.
Okay, so you have state for position,
velocity angle, angular velocity, okay?
Then you just reuse your Q learning function.
This is a Q learning update,
okay?
There is a uh, function, we are using it here.
Look at NP, digitize. This.
NP digitize is basically nothing
but your position state
and po this position, space, position, velocity,
all of these are coming from where it is coming from
this definition, right?
This is a added, these are all
add under this.
If the area value is matching with the state
that you are getting from the environment, okay?
If that is matching for them, it is going
to return the hello for everything else,
it is going to make it to zero.
That is the main purpose of digitizes.
Uh, again, I tell you why it is required.
She look at this state I'm getting from her state,
I'm getting from the environment variable
that I'm getting from open AI gene package.
This state is encoding all of these thing position,
velocity angle, angular velocity,
Okay?
So at a particular state it is going to return this value,
it's going to return this value at a particular state.
However, these values might change,
but it'll be having a particular value for this
and these values are going to be copied into
it is going to be matching with your ion space.
This ion space is a added if this
position space particular index of ion is matching
with this value for that index, the value will be returning
for every other index of this a a
they will be retained return as zero.
That for that purpose we are using in.
So can we do this
In next cluster? Sir, it is
getting out of ahead sir.
Ah, fine. Actually you
asked, uh, one of you asked me, right?
This encoding of uh, 500 values right here. Yes sir.
I asked that. The same relation. Yeah, same relation.
Basically here I have given me explanation
because we are using gym package.
However, in example this code,
we are not using the state forward one
dimensional information of state
because our state is having far four dimensional
information, position, velocity, angle and angular velocity.
This entirely content here.
State definition, we are doing it separately.
For that you're going to use this digitize.
That is the only thing
good that you have asked that question.
That's why I have opened it up this card for running.
It'll take more time.
Okay? You have any more question?
So how many classes are remaining?
Your course is going to be ending at where?
In the month of February, right?
Yes sir. Yes sir. February 22nd.
22nd of February. Yes sir.
So as Per the academic calendar,
I think there will be some compensatory two
or three classes more, but
however that means we have almost, uh,
this month and next month.
So anyhow, I'll be getting time
to teach you deep learning also.
Okay?
Yes sir. Um,
Okay, so if you don't have any question then we
can wind up who this class.
Thank you, sir. We're not
Using any activation function here, Mr.
Sir? No, no,
because we have not got into neur network.
We'll be getting into that
after we get into deep Q learning.
Okay?
So the segment which you gave on Monte Carlo.
So we need to submit, uh, Python code, correct? Yeah.
Ah, yes,
yes. 18th is your date.
Okay. And the Python code we need
to write in copy and submit, right?
Hmm? Yes. Yes. With the execution of your, uh, output,
I mean your output to be displayed the notebook.
So output will be just the state value estimation,
right? Uh, those values.
So yeah, state value estimation and then,
and then how your state value is rising, falling down
or rising that thing.
Graph. Graph,
Okay, sir?
Yeah. Uh, so only these tools, right, sir?
Mm-hmm. Yes. Yes. Okay, sir.
Thank you sir. Thank You sir. Thank you sir. Thank
You sir. Thank you.
Thank you, sir. Thank you all. Okay, bye.